---
title: JS Module
tag: Javascript, modular
category: javascript
---

> A group of code and data releted to a particular piece of functionlity. It encapsulates implementation details, exposes a public API, and is combined with other modules to build a larger application.

## Module goal

* Create higher-level abstractions
* Encapsulation
* Resuability
* Simplify dependency management

## Revealing Module Pattern -- Singleton

Using IIFE to create singleton module pattern.

```javascript
var scoreboard = function() {
    var privateV = '';

    function publicF() { }

    return {
        f: publicF
    }
}()
```

## Revealing Module Patter -- Constructor

Declare a function but not imediately invloke it. This allows multiple instances.

```javascript
var Scoreboard = function() {
    var privateV = '';

    function publicF() { }

    return {
        f: publicF
    }
}
var myScoreboard = new Scoreboard();
```


## Module Formats and Loaders

Module Formats vs Module Loaders => Javscript vs Browsers

Module format is the syntax to define a module, module loader is the execution.

### Formats
Non-native:

* AMD(Asynchronous Module Definition)
* CommonJS
* UMD(Unified Module Definition)
* System.register

**AMD**

```javascript
//Calling define with a dependency array and a factory function
define(['jquery'] , function ($) {
    //Define the module value by returning a value.
    return function () {};
});
```

> The AMD format comes from wanting a module format that was better than today's "write a bunch of script tags with implicit dependencies that you have to manually order" and something that was easy to use directly in the browser. Something with good debugging characteristics that did not require server-specific tooling to get started. It grew out of Dojo's real world experience with using XHR+eval and wanting to avoid its weaknesses for the future.

According to RequireJS docs, It is an improvement over the web's current "globals and script tags" because:

* Uses the CommonJS practice of string IDs for dependencies. Clear declaration of dependencies and avoids the use of globals.
* IDs can be mapped to different paths. This allows swapping out implementation. This is great for creating mocks for unit testing. For the above code sample, the code just expects something that implements the jQuery API and behavior. It does not have to be jQuery.
* Encapsulates the module definition. Gives you the tools to avoid polluting the global namespace.
* Clear path to defining the module value. Either use "return value;" or the CommonJS "exports" idiom, which can be useful for circular dependencies.

It is an improvement over CommonJS modules because:

* It works better in the browser, it has the least amount of gotchas. Other approaches have problems with debugging, cross-domain/CDN usage, file:// usage and the need for server-specific tooling.
* Defines a way to include multiple modules in one file. In CommonJS terms, the term for this is a "transport format", and that group has not agreed on a transport format.
* Allows setting a function as the return value. This is really useful for constructor functions. In CommonJS this is more awkward, always having to set a property on the exports object. Node supports module.exports = function () {}, but that is not part of a CommonJS spec.

**CommonJS**

```javascript
var $ = require('jquery');
exports.myExample = function () {};
```

* Either use a server to translate CJS modules to something usable in the browser.
* Or use XMLHttpRequest (XHR) to load the text of modules and do text transforms/parsing in browser.
* The CJS module format only allowed one module per file, so a "transport format" would be used for bundling more than one module in a file for optimization/bundling purposes.

**UMD**

Since CommonJS and AMD styles have both been equally popular, it seems there’s yet no consensus. This has brought about the push for a “universal” pattern that supports both styles, which brings us to none other than the Universal Module Definition.

The pattern is admittedly ugly, but is both AMD and CommonJS compatible, as well as supporting the old-style “global” variable definition:
```javascript
(function (root, factory) {
    if (typeof define === 'function' && define.amd) {
        // AMD
        define(['jquery'], factory);
    } else if (typeof exports === 'object') {
        // Node, CommonJS-like
        module.exports = factory(require('jquery'));
    } else {
        // Browser globals (root is window)
        root.returnExports = factory(root.jQuery);
    }
}(this, function ($) {
    //    methods
    function myFunc(){};

    //    exposed public method
    return myFunc;
}));
```

> These are modules which are capable of working everywhere, be it in the client, on the server or elsewhere.

> The UMD pattern typically attempts to offer compatibility with the most popular script loaders of the day (e.g RequireJS amongst others). In many cases it uses AMD as a base, with special-casing added to handle CommonJS compatibility.

Native:

Javscript doesn't have native modules until ES2015.

**ES2015**

```javascript
// Default exports and named exports
import theDefault, { named1, named2 } from 'src/mylib';
import theDefault from 'src/mylib';
import { named1, named2 } from 'src/mylib';

// Renaming: import named1 as myNamed1
import { named1 as myNamed1, named2 } from 'src/mylib';

// Importing the module as an object
// (with one property per named export)
import * as mylib from 'src/mylib';

// Only load the module, don’t import anything
import 'src/mylib';

export var myVar1 = ...;
export let myVar2 = ...;
export const MY_CONST = ...;

export function myFunc() {
    ...
}
export function* myGeneratorFunc() {
    ...
}
export class MyClass {
    ...
}
export default 123;
const MY_CONST = ...;
function myFunc() {
    ...
}
export { MY_CONST, myFunc as fn };
// re-export from other module
export { foo, bar } from 'src/other_module';
```


### Loaders

* RequireJS (load AMD)
* SystemJS (load AMD/CommonJS/UMD/System.register)



